*****************
From v3.8 to v4.0
*****************

Summary
=======

With Sming version 4.0 there are some backwards
incompatible changes. This page is provided to help with migrating your
applications.

In particular, the build system has changed so the process is now driven from the
project directory.

See :doc:`/_inc/Sming/building` for detailed information and a list of known issues.


Header files
============

The folder structure has been revised to provide support for additional
architectures, such as the Host Emulator, and in the future the ESP32.

The ``Sming/Arch`` directory should never be accessed directly: it
contains specific files for the target architecture, and may provide
different header file versions to the main ones. Instead, consider these
directories to be your ‘root’ include directories:

::

   Sming
   Sming/Components
   Sming/Core
   Sming/Wiring

Examples of #include statements:

====================================================     =====================================
Old-style                                                Recommended
====================================================     =====================================
``"SmingCore/SmingCore.h"``                              ``<SmingCore.h>``
``"SmingCore/Network/SmtpClient.h"``                     ``<Network/SmtpClient.h>``
``"SmingCore/Data/Stream/FlashMemoryStream.h"``          ``<Data/Stream/FlashMemoryStream.h>``
``"Wiring/WString.h"``                                   ``<WString.h>``
``"SmingCore/Platform/Station.h"``                       ``<Platform/Station.h>``
====================================================     =====================================


Changed Headers
---------------

If you use some of the includes below directly in your application make
sure to apply the following changes:

================== ================================= =====================
Description        Old name                          New name
================== ================================= =====================
uart driver        ``"espinc/uart.h"``               ``<driver/uart.h>``
flesh memory       ``"flashmem.h"``                  ``<esp_spi_flash.h>``
C compatible types ``<espinc/c_types_compatible.h>`` ``<c_types.h>``
================== ================================= =====================

user_include.h
--------------

This file is generally #included ahead of everything else so that common
architecture-specific definitions are available. Unless you’ve made
changes to the file, it is not required and you should delete it: Sming
provides a default which will be used.

If you have made customisations, please amend the file as follows:

::

   #pragma once
   #include_next <user_config.h>

   << User Customisations here >>


If you're using ``#include <SmingCore.h>`` then you don't need
``#include <user_config.h>`` as this is included automatically.

Application Makefile
====================

* Rename ``Makefile-user.mk`` file to ``component.mk``.
* Replace the file ``Makefile`` with the one from the ``Basic_Blink``
  sample project. If you've ignored the instructions and modified the
  file (!) then you'll need to move those changes into your new
  ``component.mk`` file instead.
* Sming uses the ``#pragma once`` statement for header guards, so
  consider updating your own files if you're not already doing this.

Arduino Libraries
=================

Your project must specify which Arduino Libraries it uses (if any). Do
this by setting ``ARDUINO_LIBRARIES`` in your project's
``component.mk`` file. For example:

.. code-block:: make

   ARDUINO_LIBRARIES := OneWire

This change means only the libraries you require for a project need to
be built.


JSON
====

ArduinoJson is now an optional Component, so you need to make a couple
of changes to use it:

* Add ``ArduinoJson6`` to the ``ARDUINO_LIBRARIES`` variable in your
  project's ``component.mk`` file. (e.g.
  ``ARDUINO_LIBRARIES = ArduinoJson6``) To support migration of
  existing projects, you can elect to continue using version 5 by
  specifying ``ArduinoJson5`` instead.
* Add ``#include <JsonObjectStream.h>`` to your source code. If you're
  not using the stream class, add ``#include <ArduinoJson.h>`` instead.

See library documentation for further details:

* :library:`ArduinoJson6`
* :library:`ArduinoJson5`

WiFi Classes
============

Additions
---------

New class to handle MAC addresses: :source:`Sming/Wiring/MacAddress.h`.

:source:`Sming/Platform/Station.h`
----------------------------------

-  `getConnectionStatusName()` returns String instead of `char*`
-  `EStationConnectionStatus` renamed to `StationConnectionStatus`

:source:`Sming/Platform/WifiEvents.h`
-------------------------------------

- Callback handler parameter lists have changed

Deprecated / Changed types
==========================

Deprecated types will generate a compiler warning. See `Deprecated List <../api/deprecated.html>`_.
